The first study investigates if there is a statistical difference in voting agreement in Dutch political parties before elections compared to after cabinet formation. This will be tested by creating two networks. The first network will be based on votes in the year preceding the 2023 elections, and the other based on votes in the year following cabinet formation. To test if there is statistical difference between these networks there are 3 options to test this: t-test, Quadratic Assignment Procedure (QAP), and Multiple Regression QAP (MRQAP). A t-test is not suitable for this type of data because voting relationships in a network are not independent of each other. Since if one party often agrees with another, it can influence how that party agrees with others as well. MRQAP focuses on explaining why certain edges exist by including predictor variables, which is not necessary for study 1. 
QAP is the best option for this research, since QAP can directly compare two networks by calculating the correlation between the two networks and repeatedly permutes node labels to test if this difference is by chance or a statical significant difference.
The only assumption of QAP  is that the networks that are used need to have the exact same vertices, which is not the case, because not all election parties join the cabinet. These small parties will be added with very low edge values so that both networks share identical node sets.
The second study examines why these differences in voting agreements in the networks are happening or not. This will be done with a Generalized Exponential Random Graph Model (GERGM). The difference between a GERGM and a traditional ERGM is that it allows weighted edges.This method is suitable for the data because it can work with weighted connections, which means it can use the exact level of voting agreement instead of reducing the data to simple yes/no ties. It is also possible to handle ties in a network that are not independent.  The factors that will be added to the GERGM are the following terms: 
The GERGM is suitable for the research question because it can test how ideological similarity, coalition position, and structural patterns in the network influence voting agreement between parties. This makes it possible to understand the mechanisms behind voting behaviour.
A bipartite ERGM was considered as an alternative, but this would model connections between parties and motions instead of direct cooperation between parties. It would also be much more complex without answering the research question as clearly. Traditional regression models were also not suitable because they assume independence between observations. So, the GERGM is the most appropriate method for study 2.